### There's always a way when you're committed

```note
You’ve got to wake up every morning with determination
if you’re going to go to bed with satisfaction.
```

mediocre - something neither great or terrible.

### The biggest adventure you can ever take is to live the life of your dreams

```note
How you wake up each day and your morning routine (or lack
thereof) dramatically affects your levels of success in every single area of your life.
```

Ö Wake up every day with more energy, feeling excited and empowered with the tools to fulfill your potential.

```note
Your level of success, will rarely exceed your level of personal development, because success is something you attract by the person you become
```

We all want Level 10 success, in every area of our lives—health, happiness, finances, relationships, career, spirituality, you name it—but if our levels of personal development (knowledge, experience, mindset, beliefs, etc.) in any given area are not at a Level 10, then life is always going to be a struggle.

Our outer world will always be a reflection of our inner world.

Until we dedicate time each day to developing ourselves into the person we need to be to create the life we want, success is always going to be a struggle to attain.

### Our First Challenge: Finding Time

solution to all of my problems was that I had to commit to making personal development a priority in my daily life

Matthew Kelly says: “On the one hand, we all want to be happy. On the other hand, we all know the
things that make us happy. But we don’t do those things. Why? Simple. We are too busy. Too busy doing what? Too busy trying to be happy.”

It’s been said that the first hour is the rudder of the day. If I’m lazy or haphazard in my actions during the first hour after I wake up, I tend to have a fairly lazy and unfocused day. But if I strive to make that first hour optimally productive, the rest of the day tends to follow suit.

```note
if you want your life to be different, you have to be willing to do something different first
```

### Our Second Challenge: Doing What’s Most Impactful

Wake up at 5 am and do these 6 things 10 mins each

**Silence** Sitting in silence, praying, meditating, and focusing on my breath, for 10 minutes. I felt my stress melt away, felt a sense of calm come over my body and ease my mind. This was different from the typical chaos of my hectic mornings. For the first time in a long time, I felt peaceful.

**Reading** Read Think and Grow Rich

**Affirmations** The affirmation was a powerful reminder of the unlimited potential that was within me— and within each of us.I decided to write my own affirmation. I jotted down what I wanted, who I was committed to being, and what I was committed to doing to change my life. I felt empowered.

**Visualization**

**Journaling** Write what you're grateful for

**Exercise**

Less than two months after my first Miracle Morning, my income was not only back to the level it had been at before the economy crashed, it was higher than ever before.

## 95% Reality Check

```note
One of the saddest things in life is to get to the end and look back in regret, knowing that you could have been, done, and had so much more.
```

what can we do now to ensure that we don’t end up struggling, like the 95% majority will?

**Rising Above Mediocrity and Joining the Top 5%**

**Step #1: Acknowledge the 95% Reality Check**
We must embrace the fact that if we don’t commit to thinking and living differently than most people now, we are setting ourselves up to endure a life of mediocrity, struggle, failure and regret

**Step #2: Identify the Causes of Mediocrity**

### Causes of Mediocrity (and Immediate Solutions):

**Ö Rearview Mirror Syndrome**:
Rearview Mirror Syndrome (RMS)-Our subconscious minds are equipped with a self-limiting rearview mirror, through which we continuously relive and recreate our past. We mistakenly believe that who we were is who we are, thus limiting our true potential in the present, based on the limitations of our past.

on any given day, the average person thinks somewhere between 50,000 and 60,000 thoughts. The problem is that ninety-five percent of our thoughts are the same as the ones we thought the day before, and the day before that, and the day before that.

Accept the paradigm: **my past does not equal my future.**

Always remember that where you are is a result of who you were, but where you go depends entirely on who you choose to be, from this moment on.

**Ö Lack of Purpose**
live a life of purpose
my life purpose for the next 12 months would be: to become the person I need to be to create the success, freedom, and quality of life that I truly want.

universal life purpose that I believe we should all live by: **to become the best version of ourselves**.

Always remember that when you are committed to a life purpose that is bigger than your problems, your problems become relatively insignificant and you will overcome them with ease.

**Ö Isolating Incidents**
Secrets of the Millionaire Mind, **“How you do anything is how you do everything.”**

Discipline creates lifestyle.

When the buzzer goes off in the morning and you’re tempted to snooze, you start thinking, Wait—this is not who I want to become—someone who doesn’t even have enough discipline to get out of bed in the morning. I’m getting up now, because I am committed to \***\*\_\_\*\*** (waking up early, hitting my goals, creating the life of my dreams, etc.)

**Ö Lack of Accountability**
Accountability is the act of being responsible to someone else for some action or result

[Highly Recommended] Get an Accountability Partner

**Ö Mediocre Circle of Influence**
If you are surrounded with lazy, weak-minded, excuse-making people, you’ll inevitably become like them

**Ö Lack of Personal Development**
Always remember that when we fail to make time for
personal development, we are forced to make time for pain and struggle

**Ö Lack of Urgency**
This someday mindset is perpetual, and it leads to a life of procrastination, unfulfilled potential and regret

One of the saddest things in life is to live with regret, knowing that you could have, be, and do so much more.

Remember this truth: **now** matters more than any other time in your life, because it’s what you are doing today that is determining who you’re becoming, and who you’re becoming will always determine the quality and direction of your life.

**Step #3: Draw Your Line In the Sand**

Make a decision as to what you are going to start doing differently from this day forward

## Why Did YOU Wake Up This Morning?

```note
You’ve got to get up every morning with determination if you’re going to go to bed with satisfaction.

Your first ritual that you do during the day is the highest leveraged ritual, by far, because it has the effect of setting your mind, and setting the context, for the rest of your day.
```

**You Snooze, You Lose: The Truth About Waking Up**

The tone of our morning has a powerful impact on the tone of the rest of our day.

**How Much Sleep Do We Really Need?**
long sleep durations (nine hours or more) are also associated with increased morbidity (illness, accidents) and even mortality (death.)

**How To Wake UP With More Energy (On Less Sleep)**
reciting a bedtime affirmation and telling myself that I was going to wake up feeling energized in the morning: “Thank you for giving me these five hours of sleep tonight. Five hours is exactly what I need to feel rested and energized in the morning.

## The 5-Step Snooze-Proof Wake Up Strategy (For the Snooze-aholics)

It’s been said that nobody actually likes waking up early, but everyone loves the feeling of having woken up early

**Increasing Your Wake-Up-Motivation-Level (WUML)**
one step at a time. Here are my five simple, snooze-proof steps to making waking up in the morning— even early in the morning—easier than ever before.

**Step #1: Set Your Intentions Before Bed**
the key is to consciously decide every night to actively and mindfully create a positive expectation for the next morning

**Step #2: Move Your Alarm Clock Across The Room**

**Step #3: Brush Your Teeth**
go directly to the bathroom sink to brush your teeth, and while you’re at it, splash some warm (or cold) water on your face

**Step #4: Drink a Full Glass of Water**
Often when people feel tired—at any time of the day—what they really need is more water, not more sleep

**Step #5: Get Dressed or Jump In the Shower**

## The Life S.A.V.E.R.S. >Six Practices Guaranteed To Save You From a Life of Unfulfilled Potential

Remember, when you change your inner world—your life—then your outer world—your life situation—will improve in parallel.

## S is for Silence

In the attitude of silence the soul finds the path in a clearer light, and what is elusive and deceptive resolves itself into crystal clearness.

start every morning with a period of purposeful Silence.

Ö Meditation
Ö Prayer
Ö Reflection
Ö Deep Breathing Ö Gratitude

## A is for Affirmations

```note
It’s the repetition of affirmations that leads to belief
```

Your self-talk has dramatic influence on your level of success in every aspect of your life—confidence, health, happiness, wealth, relationships

Constant repetition of an affirmation will lead to acceptance by the mind, and result in changes in your thoughts, beliefs and behaviors.

Include why, at the deepest level, all of the things you want are important to you.

Your outer world improves only after you’ve invested countless hours improving yourself.

## V is for Visualization

```note
Ordinary people believe only in the possible. Extraordinary people visualize not what is possible or probable, but rather what is impossible. And by visualizing the impossible, they begin to see it as possible
```

Visualizing the process being enjoyable, free from stress and fear, motivated me to take action and overcome procrastination

Visualize your major goals, deepest desires, and most exciting,would-totally-change-my-life-if-I-achieved-them dreams. See, feel, hear, touch, taste, and smell every detail of your vision.

## E is for Exercise

If you don’t make time for exercise, you’ll probably have to make time for illness.

## R is for Reading

Reading is to the mind what exercise is to the body and prayer is to the soul. We become the books we read.

There are plenty of books written by those who have achieved the pinnacles of financial success

§ Think and Grow Rich by Napoleon Hill

§ Secrets of the Millionaire Mind by T. Harv Eker

§ Total Money Makeover by Dave Ramsey

Want to create an incredible, loving, supportive and romantic relationship?

§ The Five Love Languages by Gary D. Chapman

§ The SoulMate Experience by Jo Dunn

§ The Seven Principles For Making a Marriage Work by John M. Gottman and Nan Silver

**reading 10 pages read per day is not going to break you, but it will make you.**

## S is for Scribing

```note
Whatever it is that you write, putting words on the page is a form of therapy that doesn’t cost a dime.
```

write two headings at the top: Lessons Learned and New Commitments

**Effective Journaling**
You can write about your goals, dreams, plans, family, commitments, lessons learned, and anything else that you feel you need to focus on in your life

My journaling method ranges from being a very specific, structured process—listing what I’m grateful for, acknowledging my accomplishments, clarifying what areas I want to improve on, and planning which specific actions I’m committed to taking to improve

## Morning Schedule using Life Savers

1.Silence 5 mins
2.Affirmations 5 mins
3.Visualization 5 mins
4.Exercise 20 mins
5.Reading 20 mins
6.Scribing 5 mins

## The 6-Minute Miracle (For The Busy People)

**Minute One...**
spend the first minute sitting quietly, in purposeful Silence.You calm your mind, relax your body, and allow all of your stress to melt away. You develop a deeper sense of peace, purpose, and direction

**Minute Two...**
the ones that remind you of your unlimited potential and your most important priorities

**Minute Three...**
Your Visualization could include what it will look and feel like when you reach your goals

**Minute Four...**
take one minute to write down some of the things that you’re grateful for, what you’re proud of, and the results you’re committed to creating for that day

**Minute Five...**
invest one miraculous minute reading a page or two.

**Minute Six...**
spend the last minute moving your body for 60 seconds.The point is that you’re getting your heart rate up, generating energy and increasing your ability to be alert and focused.

Take care of your body so your body will take care of you.

start working on your most important—or least enjoyable—tasks, first thing in the morning.

If you don’t control your habits, your habits will control you.
